Feb 1-42 Sunday 5:00 am Tom left with Mr Pollard for Los Angeles – reached Long Beach Tues Feb 7-42.

June 28-42  Sunday night Tom returned from Long Beach.

Sept 18-42 Tom rec’d official notices to start for Norfolk, Va in U. S. Naval Reserve, will leave Oct 7th but on Oct 6-42 will go to KC for another physical – Oct 6 12:30 went to S. Fe direct to see him off. – Oct 8 reached Chicago

Sunday Dec 21-41 Tom left Topeka for Seattle with Paul Pennington & 3 others.

Letter from Tom, Seattle, Wash. dated Dec 27 – 1941.  (Saturday).
“Dear Mother & Claire:  Well I commence work Monday at Boeings.  Will write more when Im situated.  Love, Tom”

February 23 1942 Monday: Pres. Roosevelt to give one of his broadcasts at 9:00 tonite – Rec’d letter from Tom who felt somewhat discouraged at his inability to locate work in Long Beach, Los A. & vicinity.

Feb 21 – a telegram to Ruth from Tom in regard to accident to his car, no other particulars given. (Saturday)

March 3 1942 Tues:  Pleasant day – Annie & I went to the Cozy in the evening to see The Shepard of the Hills.  Enjoyed the picture – a story of the simple, serious folk in the Ozarks. Found a letter in the mail box from Tom.  It was such a delightful surprise – a fine long letter – In a cheerful mood – His car which he thought was irrepairrable can be fixed.  Will cost Insurance Co $250.00 – A laborer in an old car, on a misty morning, didn’t see Tom’s car, which was going about 20 miles per hr, and almost ruined Tom’s car – Time 12:50 P.M. Saturday Feb 21-42 – Tom was using his defroster.  Bob Taylor & Mr Pollard were with Tom in his car. The letter of Mar 2 – 42 (post marked) 2:00 P.M. Long Beach, Calif – was delivered at 2:30 Mar 3-42 at 900 Mulvane, Topeka, Ks.  How fastly it came. Tom’s letter Stated his side & leg were hurt at time of accident – Prior to accident he has been walking about 125 to 150 blocks per day, in quest of work – I expect now he cannot do that until his side & foot are well.

March 6 1942 Friday:  Tom’s letter came telling of a new job he will begin on March 9.  To be with Underwood typewriter Co.  He will stay one month at Long Beach, then, at the Companys expense, be sent to Los Angeles for two months mechanical training in typewriter dept.  After 2 month will return to Long Beach.

March 9 1942 Monday:  Ruth ph’d this evening to tell us she heard from Tom who seems pleased at the prospects of his new job.

 March 10 1942: Oh yes! A fine letter from Tom – says he’s tan – feeling good now – Has been painting the windows and shades black to make them light resistant in case of air-raids.  He did this to help his landlady.

March 13 1942 Friday:  Letter from Tom asking us to send his camera etc to Long Beach- nice pictures he wishes to make.

March 16

 

1942 Monday – Post card, dated Mch 16-42 from Tom, stated new address to be 617 Elm, Long Beach, Calif
Monday sent his camera by Express – (Railway Express Co.): was sent to 719 West Ocean Blvd tho; as we didn’t receive notice of new address until Thur. Mar 19th

March 28 1942 Saturday:  Fine letter from Tom – waiting to hear from Civil Service Ex for mechanics Beginner.

April 9 1942 Thurs:  About 2 A.M. oclock Tom reached Topeka.  He left Long Beach, California Tues. Apr 7 at noon, drove two days & two nights to reach Topeka before Apr 11th 42.

 

On April 11-42, his draft number was to changed from 3A class to the 1A, so he reported at Local Draft Number 2, in Topeka, on Apr 10th Friday. – It was wonderful to see Tom again:  he seemed little more matured, but the same Tom.  He & Ruth came out to dinner & to spend the evening, later leaving to call on Mr Bryden

April 10

 

1942 Fri:  a.m. Tom called at the Draft Board No 2 in Topeka as he recd notice while at Long Beach that he was to be reclassified -  1:00 P.M. he drove to K. City for a physical exam, for Naval Reserve.  Color Blindness prevented his being accepted. First of year he also applied at Federal Bldg for a position in Ship Repair yards in Pearl Harbor, but did not hear from his application.

April 11 1942 Saturday:  About eleven oclock Tom, after receiving a letter from Douglass Air Plant Corporation that a position was opened to him, left on the Bus for Los Angeles.  Twas a hurried goodbye as the Trailway left Topeka within three quarters of an hour after letter was received from California – Hurriedly packing he phoned us goodbye. The evening before he, Ruth & Ruth’s sister-in-law returned from K. City where Tom, at the suggestion of the recruiting officer, had gone for exam to enlist in Navy Reserve.  Because of color blindness, he could not be accepted.

April 14 Tues 1942 Tues:  Tom’s letter dated Apr 14 – tells his bus was 8 hours late due to a burned bridge at Raton, N. Mex. and Tom arrived at Long Beach at 6:00. He’s back with Mrs Donahue again on ground floor, gas heat & she made the room 4.00 a wk instead of 5.00. Said he rec’d Claires money order for 95.00 cashed it & said “Ill make it up.” He is hired by Douglass Plant in Machine Shop at 75 cts an hr to commence.  Hours from 12:30 A.M. to 8:00 A.M. called graveyard shift. address 717 ½ W. Ocean Blvd. Long Beach, California  

April19 Fri:  A letter from Tom; he’s at the Douglass Aircraft Factory in Long Beach now.

April 20 1942 Tues:  Letter from Tom

April 23

 

1942 Thur.  Thru error wrote part of my diary for Thur., on the Pg of Apr 22. Letter from Tom from Long Beach, California – Letter informed us that a letter from Federal Bldg in Topeka Navy Dept, received by Tom states that navy has accepted him for construction work all he needs to do is to sign up.  Tom went to San Pedro and took out Seaman’s paper for Merchant Marine. U.S.

May 1 1942.  May Basket Day. – Ruth phoned about a letter from Tom, who was called by his draft board, to be examined for Military purposes – Exam to be Apr 30-42.  So he was exam’d Thur Apr 30-42 at Long Beach – A little time will be required before further induction if he is accepted. Perhaps the drilling, the regularity of routine, outdoor exercise, regular sleeping hours etc will be beneficial to our Amer. boys who are making such sacrifices.  Do the people abroad appreciate it?

May 7 1942 Thurs:  Letter from Tom to Ruth saying he’s still at Lockeads & is now doing machine work in Defense plant – He mapped out the Route for Ruth to take if she drives to California.

May 9 1942 Saturday:  Two letters from Tom; said “Oh Boy! He’d love to have Mother come to see him.”

May 13 1942 Wed:  A letter from Tom.  He had to buy $25.00 worth of tool for his Air Craft Factory work – then $5.00 a week is taken from employee’s salary for Defense Bonds. He is looking for’d to seeing Peggy who at present is in Manhattan Beach, Calif where her husband is on Coast Guard Defense duty.

May 20 1942 Wed:  Finest letter from Tom, he’s getting more rest: sleeps Saturday nite as he now works 6 instead of 7 nights a week – has 2 new pr shoes, one dress & one work pair -- & a pair of sailors dungarees with legs like inverted funnels.  His landlady Mrs Donahue prepares him meals sometimes – old fashion beans for which he’s very fond. Since her friend went East & left his trailer with her, Tom sleeps in the trailer.  It’s wonderful, has a radio, stove, cook stove, wardrobe closet, elec fan, studio couch, sink, breakfast table, studio couch & all the “fixins”  Swell he says & much quieter in the back yard – His father will take him to Newport to see his friend who has a diving suit. 

May 25 1942 Monday:  Letter from Tom who is working 7 days a week again.  Wrote to Ruth to come out if she want to do so

May 26 1942 Tues:  Letter from Tom (Tues or Wed)

May 29 1942 Friday:  Peggy came home from California for a 2 wks vacation, Keith (Capt Weltmer of 35 Div, Coast Guard Artillery) is still in California – Peggy will go back to Keith when he is changed again. Decoration Day, industrial plants are supposed to keep operating, so I guess Talmage Jr (Tom) is probably on duty today at the Douglas Plant in Long Beach

June 3 1942 Wed.  Wrote Tom: no letter yet this week – Annie house-cleaned the front living room – the helper failed to come –

June 9 1942 Tues – Letter from Tom

June 13 1942 Saturday:  letter from Tom telling of his plans to enter U. S. Maritime service as a steward, mechanic, or seaman on a Merchant Vessel or tanker enroute to Hawaii or Australia?  Ship to be convoyed, cannot write us for a month.Ship has private locker for each of its crews, & usually two of the crew “bunk” together.  Fine food served, goal would be an engineer perhaps, who in peace time is salaried 400 per month.  As all Tom’s expenses are cared for he will clear 50.00 per wk.  much of the worlds future hangs on on our tankers which must keep allies supplied with oil which the enemies are fighting hard to prevent.  “The Axis strategists have this same attitute toward us."


June 151942 Monday evening:  Ruth spent the evening with us, so we wouldn’t be too lonesome about Tom’s ship trip.  Spent a pleasant evening – visited until almost 12 oclock – Ruth brought us some candy -  She’s very thoughtful and unselfish – wore a washable green slack outfit as many girls are doing during the war days –Ruth had received a letter from Violet Atkinson in Los A. telling about Tom’s plans to go on the ship – Max had roomed with Tom for 2 wks & was to go on the ship also – Went to Mrs Crowther to have some alterations. – Winifred Day brought Annie some flowers & visited

June 16 1942 Tues.  Our last letter to all from Tom before sailing.  We think he was to sail Friday the 12th – 42.

June 17 1942 Wed.  Later from Talmage Sr of Los Angeles saying Talmage Jr (Tom) shipped out Sunday a.m. June 14-42.

June 21 1942 Sunday – Father’s Day – Don visited us & brought us a quart of caramel chiffon ice cream & stayed awhile with us a looked at the flowers & lawn. Annie talked with Mr Bryden who has Tom’s camera which Tom wrote to him & told him to use for awhile – Tom’s very fond of Mr Bryden, who is in turn fond of Tom Mr B. had recently rec’d a letter from Tom before he shipped out.

June 241942 Wed.  Card from Tom “If all goes well will see you the end of next week.  It will sure be great to be back again.”  Love, Tom.  We rec’d card Tues. June 23-42, came from Portland, Ore. dated June 20th

June 29 1942 Mon.  Tom came home, Sunday night; as we had gone to bed, we didn’t see him until Monday, he & Ruth came to dinner & Don & Ann came over later & visited out on the porch. Tom looked well & seemed happy to be in Kans. again.

July 15 1942 Wed:  Quite warm – In evening Tom came from K. City where he was exam’d & took the oath as a Naval Reserve in the United States Navy Reserve Construction division for 2 years; he is classified F.2/C (Seabees). He seemed pleased.  Had he not been colored blind he would have had a more advanced classification and been in Navy.  Inability to discriminate between certain colors barred him from the Navy

July 17 1942 Fri.  Clarge & Tom at Norman’s for lunch – He rec’d a letter from draft board here inducted him into Army service – but on July 15 – he entered Naval Reserve Service, so he was ahead of the draft board this time.

July 19 Sunday 1942 Sun; Clarges vacationing at home for a week – Tom with us awhile, until Lee Godrey called – They were going to drive to Gardner Kans where they might be stationed. I wanted to be with Tom as much as I could before he entered Service & would be sent away, so I took a week off.

September 18 Fri 1942:  Tom rec’d official notice to start for Norfolk, Va in the Naval Reserve – transportation furnish.  He starts Oct 7-42 but on Oct 6 will go to K. C. for another physical.

October 8 1942 Thursday:  Annie & I each rec’d two dollars from Bessie – just to spend as “wrecklessly” as we wish. A post card from Tom dated Oct 8 – 1942 Chicago, Ill states; “Got started about 10 oclock last nite.  We drew pullmans.  Had a good nights rest and a dandy breakfast.  Arrived in Chicago about 8 oclock this morning. It took all day yesterday to get started.  Ruth met me.”

October 10 1942 Saturday:  A card from Tom

October 15 1942 Thur:  Letter from Tom at Camp Allen at Norfolk, Va.  Busy days for them there – Inoculations pretty stiff – a drilling in arms; “serious business there” he says

October 16 1942 Friday:  Another letter from Tom to us – Mary, Ann, Ruth, Mr Godfrey also heard from Tom.

October 17 1942 Saturday:  Don rec’d a letter from Tom – so did Mrs Morns, & Mrs Green – Seems as tho Tom should be coming home now, - I cant understand our country on our times.  How can a President be given so much emergency privileges, that those whom we love can be taken right out of our homes and our hearts and be shipped away to Island X, without our knowing where they are sent.  Is this democracy! Or is it dictatorship.  Is it politics sailing under the cloak of military secretcy.

October 26 1942 Mon:  Peggy resigned from her position at Air-base -  A letter from Tom

October 27 1942 Tues:  Sent special envelopes to Tom & 4 pkgs of gum.

October 28 1942 Wed:  Letter from Tom – Boys were using gas masked in a tear gas room.  Made tears come.

October 29 1942 Thur:  Another letter from Tom.  Its nice to have a fine nephew like Tom.  A fine young man – Two Capitals & the money belt were rec’d by him & he was so pleased – His work friend at Douglass Plant in California has gone into service with his son.

November 6 1942 Friday – no letters from Tom today – His company has been transferred “Somewhere,” – all military secret.

November 9 1942 Mon.  Two letter from Tom; he has been transferred to Camp Bradford, Norfolk, Va.  Camp in the center of “Pine” forest.  Eight of the boys “bunk” together in one tent, all new ones, none of Tom’s former associates were transferred to Bradford.

November 16 1942 Monday  Letter from our Tom F2/c who is now in the Replacement Battalion R3, Co D. Plat 5, Camp Bradford N.C.T.C. Norfolk, Va at a moments notice subject to being sent out.  Their battalion to be split up & scattered in other Battalions – Is getting a stiff work out from Marines. Pretty tired at night, no heat in the tents, go on to bed.
By air mail sent Dots letter to Tom with my enclosed.

November 17 1942 Tues  Tom received a grand kit from Underwood Co; waterproof bag an expensive outfit with a fine greeting card.  Contained the following articles  1 Shaving Soap 2-Tooth brush & box 3- Tooth paste 4 – Hair brush 5 Face Powder 6 Soap 7 Sewing kit 8 Steel Mirror, 9 Silverware polishing kit 10 Shoe polish kit 11 Foot powder 12 First Aid Kit  13 Box Stationary.

November 21 1942 Saturday:  Good letter from Tom.  The boys in camp at last have stoves in their tents so the can keep warm.  They were “Valley Forging’ it for awhile – In evening they went to bed early.  Too cold to do otherwise until their stoves came. He sent us the gift card which accompanied the expensive Waterproof bag with 13 valuable necessities from the Underwood Co.  Tom wants us to keep it for him until he returns from war.

November 23 1942 Monday:  Annie & Ruth each rec’d a “Service’ pin from Tom.  Lovely little pins; came from Los Angeles where he had sent for them – said on his “Liberty” night he remained in to do his washing – has been working on the waterfront sawing & chopping wood – unable to attend any school until more settled – Eats pint ice cream every nite, cold or warm – In the woods the mosquitos swarmed upon them like dive-bombers.  Still in Camp Bradford

November 27 1942 Friday:  Just a listening in to Jimmy Riggs & Betty Lou: - Annie is crocheting hot pad holders & has just finished a letter to Tom who says now he will be surprised if he leaves the country.  Nov 11th he was scheduled for Ships Co. at Allen, but it fell thru.  Ship Co. is composed of men who stay on a base permanently.  Chief say by next week all will be moved --.  Tom’s trying to enter a diving school but hasn’t heard anything yet – was on guard duty from 12 oclock until 4:00 P.M Nov 20 but slept most of time on a bench in the wood

November 28 1942 SaturdayLetter from Tom dated 25th Camp Bradford.  “We rec’d orders to prepare for a five day trip & tonite is our last liberty.  Rumors are California.  I hope so.Well, folks, I’ll be seeing you Lots of Love Tom”

 November 30 1942 Monday:  Prime Minister of England, Winston Churchills 68th birthday. Letter from Tom.  Doesn’t know just where his Battery will be sent.

December 2 942 Wed Evening:  Ruth phoned, told Annie, Tom had hurriedly phoned here from Cincinnati, he’s enroute to a new destination which he thinks may be California.  Didn’t have time to talk much.  Ruth’s going to take a chance by going to Kans City at 12 A.M tonite & wait in the Union Station in hope of seeing him – He didn’t know whether they’d come thru KC or not – said he weighed 140 lbs.Today we sent Tom’s Xmas box to Norfolk, Virginia & he had already been transferred, but it will be forwarded to him.

December 10 1942 Thur:  Letter from Tom now at Port Hueneme, California in Advance Base Depot classification  Its fine to be back in the “good old sunshine of California again” he writes.

December 14 1942 Monday – Regional Blackout but we went to bed before its beginning.Rec’d fine letter from Tom, from California, has a nice camp there, good food including nuts & bananas – sees the mountains & sometimes orange sun rises – Is going to Los Angeles & Longbeach on his liberty time Saturday afternoon & Sunday –

December 171942 Thurs:  Good letter from Tom;  On Satur & Sunday, “his liberty” time he went to Long Beach & saw Mrs Donahue his former land-lady who was so glad to see him & wished him to spend the week-end there but he went to Los Angeles met his Dad had a nice dinner & staid all night at their apartments.  Sunday they drove him to the Hollywood Canteen, Beverly Hills & Los Angeles U. S. O., and Harry Cannon – Tom’s friend at Douglas. he said “Boy but they treat you fine; games, hostesses, people take you to dinner & they serve you free foods.  “Boy, he did have a time – Mrs Donahue sent him a dollar for a bean dinner --  Katie, who used to be Bob Taylors wife, invited him to come and see them & so did Harry Cannon his Douglas Plant friend.  “Things are fine,” he says & on his liberty time next week he will spend it, the day after Xmas, in Los Angeles if still stationed at Port Hueneme

December 19 1942 Saturday:  Sleeting & slippery today.  Don rec’d letter from Tom stating that his division at Port Hueneme had rec’d their rifles, masks, mosquito netting & other equipment so it probably wouldn’t be long before they would be transferred now –

December 21 1942 Monday Evening:Ruth just phoned.  She rec’d a letter from Tom’s father in Los A.  He enclosed a clipping from the paper stating 600 trainees from Port Hueneme had been transferred to Catalina Island which was once the playground for the “Well-to-do” - that there will be about 1600 there altogether for some months of training.  They are housed in a famous hotel there where the violinists Rubinoff used to pay $25.00 a night to stay – So Tom’s father, not having heard from
Tom for a week, thinks he may be among those in Catalina.  But Tom is still in Port Hueneme as Dec 24th we rec’d a letter post marked Dec 16. from P. Hueneme.

December 24 1942 Thurs:  Usual Xmas excitement prevailed thruout the day.  In the office, some of our patients now serving their country but home on a Xmas furlo, came in for examinations or adjustments of glasses, we were pleased to see them.  Brave young men, of courage & sacrifices putting their shoulders to the wheel for liberty sakes, showing they “can take” if they must. Then in the evening, Annie & I after dinner was over, had our Xmas tree celebration.  Our thoughts were with Tom.  His letter came today with kodak picture of three you men: Tom, Chief Miller, & Jack Leigh.  That top our evening.

December 28 1942 Monday:  Oh! What a day!  Two letters from Tom.  He rec’d his belated Xmas box Dec 23rd.  It has been to Camp Bradford Va, then forwarded to Port Hueneme in California. He wrote that his knee- warmers & his shower clogs etc were “swell.”  He was so pleased.  Mrs Gaines, a friend of Harry Anderson’s sent him fine lot of cookies – Custer & Bess sent letters, cards & $2.00.  It was really a great day – Don’s family sent $5.00 We rec’d box of Mississippi pecans from New Orleans – Annie & I each $2.00 – Annie 5.00 from Tom - & Tom sent Claire $10.00 on the camera – And best of all a fine photograph of Tom with his Navy uniform.  He looked so well & more plump; but eyes looked tired.

December 29 1942 Tues:  Post card from Ruth’s Aunts in Lawrence – one from Emma in Florida - & another letter from Tom from Ventura, Calif where he was spending his day off. – Lovely menu for Xmas day Seabees at U. S. Naval Advance Base Depot in Port Hueneme Harry Anderson sent Tom another dollar.  Mrs Pollard sent Tom, box of candy.

 
